Oh, I wanted to talk a little bit about the New Deal
and Roosevelt. The president comes in in 1933, and
your family is basically a conservative one, yet
he fundamentally changed American government
and the system with the New Deal. I was wondering
about your political persuasion. What did your
father think? What did you people think about the
New Deal, about Roosevelt? Did it have any impact?
Did it seem like it had any impact on you at all? I
can't remember any kind of impact. As party
affiliations, you know, we were all Democrats,
but I don't recall Papa ever saying you know, one
way or another that it was the right thing or the
wrong thing, because he wasn't that really
involved in politics. In other words, your father
was not only not involved in politics, but he was
not, he never received any federal assistance
like so many other Americans did during that time.
No. Wish he had, but he hadn't. No, he didn't
receive any federal assistance at all, and didn't
seek it. No, he didn't seek it. And I don't remember
making, ever remember him making any comments
about want to take advantage of the New Deal thing.
He wasn't politically motivated that way. Just
work. Yeah, right. Now, you never thought of going
to another institution besides A&M? Well, I had an
offer to go to Baylor University on a scholarship.
You did? Well, tell me about that. Well, my high
school coach was a Baylor graduate. And he wanted
me to go to Baylor. But I told him, I'm sorry, but
Papa wants me to go to A&M. And I'll go there if I have
to work. But Baylor is basically a conservative
school. And so your father didn't, nevertheless,
he still thought. Said A&M because of the military
aspect. OK. Speaking of military, did you ever
think of going to West Point?
Not till I got to A&M. After my freshman year, I
thought about West Point because my roommate, my
sophomore year, had an appointment to West Point.
Who was that? It was Lloyd White from Texarkana,
Texas. And he couldn't pass the physical. His
chest didn't meet the required measurement. And
so they told him to come back in a year, and they
would reconsider his application. And so he was
talking to me as my roommate my sophomore year to go
with him. And I gave it some consideration. And
every morning, I would make him get up. He was a
little bitty fellow. I'd make him get up and get in
front of the window and do deep breathing
exercises every morning. And so he passed the
physical, but then he also had a chance to go to
Annapolis, so he went to Annapolis instead.
Instead of Army, he went to, instead of West Point,
he went to Annapolis. And that was the only time I
ever thought about going to any kind of military
academy, was his . Okay, what were your first
impressions when you arrived at A&M? 1939, wasn't
it? Right.
It was different. Had you ever been, ever visited
the campus before? I visited one time prior to
that. I went to see my brothers. They were in
Mitchell Hall. And I'm sorry, at Lauren Puryear.
Jimmy was in Lauren Puryear. And I was the only one
to see him. And
I didn't see much of the campus then because we went
to see him, and then we went to the basketball game
that night, and then we'd come on home the next day.
But my first impression of A&M was just great. I
couldn't believe it, that I was going to come to
A&M.
Not because of the school, because of the
facilities. You know, my own bed, my own room, my
shower, and... In other words, it was almost an
increase of living standards for you, would you
say that? I would say that, sure. Matter of fact,
one reason why we love the Y so much is because the
first shower I took in my life was at the YMCA.
When I was growing up, I can remember, Terry, I can
remember when I was a little kid, Mama washed me in a
wash tub. We didn't have really much. You didn't
have indoor plumbing. We had indoor plumbing, but
we didn't have a tub. We had indoor plumbing, but we
didn't find any. Then Papa improved the bathroom
facilities. But I never had a shower at home. I
always had a tub. The first shower I took was at the
Y. I really, really love the Y. Oh, yeah, I do. All my
brothers love the Y. But back to your question
about A&M, I was just happy to be there. Just
delighted to be there. Felt so good. How, in what
way, I mean besides the fact that you had your own
room or you know you shared a room and you had really
good facilities, what do you mean it just felt good
to be there? I knew I was going to get a good
education. I was going to get a good education, and
A&M was a man's school. Well, did you like that
idea? That it was all-male school? It didn't
bother me. Did you like it or dislike it? Liked it. I
liked it because it was all-male school. I guess
because as a kid in high school, I didn't have any
money or car or anything to take the girls out, so I
didn't really chase the girls. I had girlfriends
all right, but I didn't chase them and didn't
entertain them like I would today if I had a chance.
But
just being all military and all male and getting an
education at A&M, I was so happy. I thought it was
the greatest thing that ever happened to me was to
go to A&M as a freshman. Just great, just. I was in
awe by it, really. Now what unit were you placed in?
I was in A Battery Field Artillery my freshman
year. And then my, the rest of my three years I was in
H Battery Field Artillery. I was in the same
battery my brothers were in. Janelle and Jimmy
were in A battery. And then when Andrew came up the
next year, he got in A battery. All four of us were in
A battery, field artillery. And then the school
moved me over to H battery. They reorganized field
artillery. So I stayed in H battery the rest of the
term. Tell me about hazing. What would you want to
know about hazing? Well, what kind of hazing? What
did they do? They whipped my butt with a board.
That's what they did. And I shook their hand when I
got through and said, thank you. And we had rap
sessions, sophomore on top of freshman. And they
aired us out in the middle of the night. Get us out of
the dormitory. Hazing in respect from
upperclassmen to freshmen. Make us walk down the
hall crab-like until we were about to die. Made us
sit in the corner on top of a sword. Really? An
imaginary sword. Oh. With your arms extended like
this. knee bends and stuff. And then we'd do
push-ups and knee bends and all kinds of
exercises.
Thinking back on it, did you think that the hazing
that you had in the late 30s and early 40s, do you
think that was a positive or a negative aspect of
A&M? At the time, I think it's positive. It was
positive. I thought it was part of the school, part
of the tradition, part of the training. Mm-hmm. It
didn't bother me. Oh, it didn't. It did not bother
me. I took it and didn't like it. I took it. I think
this is the training. I didn't like it at all. I used
to fuss and gripe about it when I got along. But I'd
say, well, this is part of the system, part of the
education, part of the discipline and the core.
You accepted it? Accepted it. Tell me about your
colleagues. What kind of people were they? My
contemporaries? Yeah, your student colleagues.
People in the Corps. The freshmen or the... Yeah.
When you first got there, you were a freshman.
Well,
everybody like I was. They weren't quite as
physically active as I was. I was out for the
freshman basketball team, so In fact, I was out for
the freshman football team. Made the freshman
football team quit. Really? Yeah. Why'd you quit?
I got hurt. John Kimbrough and Robinette and
Arnold Pannell and that bunch, they just ran over
me a couple of times, and I was just too small for
them. My picture's in the annual on the freshman
team, freshman football team. At that time, if
you're on a part-time scholarship, any kind, you
played all the sports. All of them? All of them. So
as a basketball scholarship, I had to play
football. And then- Even if you didn't- No, no, I
never played football in my life. Do you remember
an interview about high school? I was a
cheerleader, and I was basketball and swimming. I
never played football, and made the first team.
Gee, what position? Backfield. Willie Zablack,
Dub, Dub, Willie Zablack's now coaching at Texas.
Mm-hm. And Dub Sibley and all this bunch of, we were
all in the backfield. Dub was the center. But I made
the team and didn't like it. Didn't want to play.
Papa didn't know I was playing. Papa knew I was
playing. Boy, he whipped me good. But he didn't
want me to play football. But I had to. He didn't
want you to get beat up? Yeah. He thought I was too
small. I didn't weigh but 155 pounds and 5 foot 8.
And so...
In the middle of the practice one day, Ernie Panel
and Marshall Robinette, leading interference
for John Kimbrough, just ran over me. And I said,
this is it. I'm not going to play. And I got up off the
field and I walked towards the locker room and
Coach Homer Norton, head coach, hollered at me,
hey, Cokie, where are you going? And all I could do
was wave. He said, come on back here. And I just, no.
So when I got to the When I got to the locker room,
Bubba Dimmitt, the trainer says, here, take my
stuff. Don't ever give me an oblong ball anymore. I
want a round ball, basketball. And I quit. And
Coach Norton was about to take away my basketball
scholarship. Really? Yeah. Because they wanted
me to play. And Coach Corot, my basketball coach,
who was also the football coach, intervened and
said, no. let him just play basketball. So I got
relieved of that. And so my contemporaries were
all, they were just typical high school kids
coming in. I was about a year or two older than they
were. And so we got along great though. Do you
remember what kind of benefits you got from a
part-time scholarship?
Yeah, I got
$20 a month.
And also, they gave me a job in a mess hall. I was a
mess hall waiter for four years. Even after I got
more money playing basketball later on, I stayed
in with my job as a waiter in a mess hall. I liked it.
And the people I waited on liked me, so I enjoyed it.
They took one football scholarship, Terry, and
split it up into five basketball scholarships.
That's what they did. Scholarships for A&M
basketball were not like the other day. No. Oh, no.
But I had a good group of freshman classmates.
Could you live on 20 a month? No. The meals were $35 a
month. Oh, really? Yeah. And how about tuition?
Did they give you tuition? They gave me my tuition.
So $20 a month and they gave you a free tuition?
Tuition. But you had to buy your books and run the
board. And expenses and everything. And
then I worked in the mess hall. And then I did other
odd jobs. Took up tickets to football games. What
position did you play in the basketball team? I was
a guard. I was a quarterback, what we called
quarterback guard then. I brought the ball down
and controlled the game, controlled the passing,
and passed it into our postman.
I haven't looked at those figures, but how good was
the team back then? Oh, we beat the national champs
in 1941. We beat Rice University. They were the
national champs. Really? And we beat them. We were
about, I think that year we came out third in the
conference. We had a pretty good team. We didn't
have any substitutes. In fact, we were called the
Five Ironmen of Southwest Conference. Five of us
played all the time. You only had five people?
Well, first five. Then we had about four or five
substitutes. Very much. In fact, I played every
game, every minute of the game when I didn't get
fouled out. I hold the record for the most fouls in
Southwest California.
I was all over them. You tackled them. I was all over
them. I was all over them. Oh, yeah. Yeah, whenever
the coach wanted to keep somebody from shooting,
he'd put me on him, and I'd hold him down. I was a good
guard, as short as I was. I could
hold a man down, keep him from shooting. and do a
pretty good job not hurting him, just guarding him
around. Now let's turn back to the Corps for a
minute. I want to find out what were the things that
you liked about the Corps and what were the things
that you disliked about the Corps? I liked the, I
didn't mind the marching, marching to meals. I
liked that and I liked the chain of command.
You mean you liked the idea that you always knew who
was... In charge. In charge. Yeah. Like the first
sergeant, juniors, you know, and seniors. I liked
that. And...
I just... I just liked it. Cool. I just really liked
it, you know. Now my dislikes were... See, I... I
disliked one of the things, they didn't let us
study enough. They didn't let us study enough. I
wanted to study and god dang the damn sophomores
would come in and harass us and send us on details.
Just didn't study enough. And I was a pre-med
student, so I was taking science courses. You
thought that you were going to be a medical doctor?
Don't kid me. I got a degree in science. Yeah, I know
that. Yeah, yeah. And I planned to be a doctor. Of
course, my mama influenced me to be a doctor. Oh, I
didn't know that. Yeah, her grandfather was a
doctor in Greece. And so you went there with the
idea of not becoming an engineer and not staying in
the military, but with the idea of becoming a
doctor. Well, that's right. And what dissuaded
you away from becoming a medical doctor? The Army.
They, of course when I graduated, I went to the Army
and when I come back, I tried to get in medical
school. When I got back, oh yeah. Which one? I tried
Texas, Baylor, Tulane, Creighton up in Des
Moines. Des Moines, in Iowa. Oh, okay. Yeah. No, I
mean Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska. Creighton's up
there. I tried that because I had a friend, doctor,
who tried to get me in. Oh, that's a sad story. I
don't know if I'll tell you or not. I got accepted to
Bail a Man. You did? Well, why didn't you go? I was
accepted in April, and in 1st of June, I gave...
What year was this? 1948. And they wrote me a
letter. They said, we'd like for you to come back to
see Dean Morrison. He wants to have an interview
with you. So I went back over there to Houston. It
was in And he told me they overpicked the class. And
I was the last five they overpicked. So I couldn't
enroll. I said, OK, if I was overpicked, that puts
me first for next year. He said, oh, no, you got to
apply all over again. So I applied all over again
and wasn't selected anymore. I wasn't selected,
so I never did get in. And then that's when I got in
the insurance business. If you turn your tape off,
I'll tell you why I didn't get in.
What about the other universities?
Academically, I couldn't, I didn't meet some of
their requirements. Now, Tech University said, I
met them, my academic grade was good. Everything
was fine. My med, what is it, med sac? Medical
boards or whatever. No, the med sac test. Yeah.
MedPAC, MedSat. Anyway, the medical aptitude
test was good. But they said I'd been in the war. And
my mind wasn't really acclimated to civilian life
and I should go back to college for three years and
then come back to them. And I said, no, I can't do
that. Golly. In fact, the war matured me. I said,
I'd be a better student. That sounds like
discrimination because you were Because I got
shot. I got wounded. And they said, no, your mind's
all messed up and everything. I said, you better go
back to college. For three years. They wanted me to
go three years and then come back. I said, no. Yeah,
Dean Bailey. I remember over here at Texas
University. I remember that well. And then when I
went up to Omaha, to Creighton, the dean said I was
too old. I was 27 or 28 years old. I was too old. So
about four years, and then two years internship,
that's six years, I'd be, what, 33? 34, 35
years old? So, it was, you know, everybody had
their reasons. And it was frustrating. Yeah, it
was frustrating, so then I decided I won't try it
anymore. And I got an insurance business. Do you
feel bad about it? You wanted to be a medical
doctor. You studied a science background at A&M.
Did you feel really let down or that you couldn't do
that? No, I don't. I feel good. I really do. I
wouldn't have met my wife. I wouldn't have all my
kids and the business and enjoy the community
spirit here in Beaumont. Oh, no. It doesn't bother
me. It doesn't think. It was just a good
experience. I mean, you know. And, no, I I wouldn't
have been involved in the military like I have
been. Everything happens for the best. So those
are some of the things that you like and some of the
things that you dislike about the Corps. What
about a position? You were a leader ever since
fifth grade. What about a position of leadership
in the Corps? Were you a leader in the Corps? I was
not on the staff of any unit or anything.
I don't know why, come to think about it. Yeah, I
don't know. Because you were on the staff of some of
the other things. Some of the other things, yeah. I
don't know why. And I made A's in military A&M,
where I was an average student in my other grades,
sciences, chemistry, and zoology. Yeah, now that
I think about it, I had never thought about it that I
was what they call a one-button in, you know,
lieutenant in the unit. But I was... Never on the
staff or anything. Okay. In what ways did thinking
back about your career, not only in the military
but also in the society and the insurance
business, in what ways did the Corps help you and in
what ways do you think it hindered you, if any? It
helped me. It helped train me to be
self-disciplined. Okay. It helped me, if I had a
job to do, to do it. and to do the best job I can with
it. It helped
me to understand my fellow man, too. In what way? At
A&M, in the Corps, when I saw some of the freshmen
who, you know, it was pretty hard for them to take
some of this hazing, I felt for them. You know, I
wanted to help him. And I would. In the same way in
the military. I wasn't a hard-nosed officer type
who just ran over you because I knew I could run over
you. But I felt a little respect for the man. I don't
care what he was. I tried to help him. And yet I
maintained my disciplinary position.
Because that's the position I held, and I was
trying to uphold that, regardless if I was a
captain, or a major, or a lieutenant colonel, or a
general. More so, when I got to be a general, I was
more
understanding. Well, why do you think that is? I
guess because you're older? Older. Older. Yeah.
And also, they look at you differently, too, as a
general as they would a colonel or lieutenant
colonel. They look at you with more respect and
more admiration. And so if you feel that coming
from the others, then you've got to respond to it in
a more of an understanding manner, a more...
humility, a compassion type thing, as a general
officer. And I was a hard driver. I drove. I mean, I
was aggressive all the way up the line.
Because I believed in doing the job and doing it as
best I could. And I pushed hard. But when I got to be a
general, I wasn't hard. I looked at it a little bit
differently. Of course, I was looked at
differently.
When I was battalion commander, we had three or
four other battalion commanders, field
artillery commanders in the division. And I had to
work hard because it was very competitive. with
these other commanders. I had to shoot better than
they did. I had to move better than they did. I had to
communicate better. That's it. Shoot, move, and
communicate. That's field artillery. And so I
worked pretty hard. In fact, Butler was one of the
commanders. Yeah. Yeah, he was in the same
division I was with. Did he mention that to you,
that we were together? I guess he did. Yeah, he
probably did, but I did his interview last summer.
Oh, gosh. See, Kidwell was our division
commander. But the A&M— So the Corps helped you in
those ways, but did it hinder you in any way, do you
think? Was there anything that—usually this is a
difficult question. Did it hold you back, or did it
hurt your career or advancement in any way, do you
think? Let me say this, it helped me for me to
understand the chain of command. A&M helped me
there. As far as hindering and hurting,
gee, I don't know. I can't, I don't know where it
could hurt me. Okay, fine. Except maybe while I was
in the Corps, I didn't devote enough time to my
other studies. Right. Yeah. Except, now that's
the day and end, but after I got out, I can't recall
any time where the Corps gave me any bad points, you
know, in the military or in life or anywhere. Okay.
Now this is kind of interesting that you were a
leader before you got to the Corps. During the
Corps you weren't. Did you think that the Corps had
any effect on your becoming a future leader, a
general?
I never thought of it when I was at A&M, why I wasn't
on a leadership spot. I just, I guess my time was
taken up by being a leader on the basketball team.
Satisfied, satisfied my... Because you were. I
was. That's right. You ran the basketball team. I
ran the basketball team. That's right. Because
some of the generals that I talked to ran some part
of the Corps, and because you were an athlete, you
ran the basketball team. I ran the basketball
team. So I was satisfied as far as being envious of a
person being on the brigade staff or regimental
staff or battalion staff. So it really didn't
bother me. I wasn't ever jealous of someone's
position. Now there has been talk, especially
during the Vietnam War, I think was the most recent
time in American history, but before that, of the
so-called military mentality. People in the
military think a certain way. They have the same
idea. All the bureaucrats think the same way, all
the people in the military. Do you think there is a
so-called military mentality?
There is, but not with A&M men. Because I line that
up with stereotyped thinking. And A&M men are not
stereotyped thinking on the whole. Now, there may
be some exceptions. The military in Vietnam,
that show was a regular Army show. It wasn't a
reserve show. Okay. But I don't want to just, I
mean, I don't want to just use Vietnam. Yeah. I
just, but what I'm interested in is just this idea
that people in the military think a certain way.
I've heard this before. That's right. Like people
in the bureaucracies, they all think the same way.
And some people in the students, they all think the
same way. Everybody stereotypes everybody. And I
was wondering if you thought that there's such a
thing as this military mentality. There is. And
what is it? Could you define it?
I don't know how you would define something like
that, Terry. Well, what does someone in the
military think versus the way other people think?
They have no flexibility. Oh, okay. So part of it
is... It's an adjustment to the situation. They
come up on a situation and they say, this is the
solution, period. Boom. That's military
thinking. When it could be, if they would give it
some adjustment, I mean, some thinking and
evaluation and, and some, it could be other means
to accomplish what they want to do without just a
stereo 1-2-3 army type. Yeah, there is military
mentality. I run across that lots of times. And you
think that the A&M officers aren't, they don't
have this mentality as much as other officers? Is
that what you were saying? That's what I'm saying.
They don't have this... A military mentality.
That's what makes an A&M
graduate a good officer because he's not set in
concrete in his military thinking. Okay. He's
more flexible. More flexible. He tries to get the
best solution, not the solution. Okay. Not the
Army solution. When people talk about military
mentality, they also talk about the Army way or the
Army solution to a problem. But an A&M man, you say,
is more flexible. More flexible. What was your
opinion of your professors back at A&M from 1939 to
1943?
Well, I liked them all. Of course, I was trained to
like your teachers and like your professors.
That's the way I was raised. Papa raised us that
way. You know, respect for your teacher. And I
don't know of any outstanding teachers except
one, I guess, Dr. Ichfeldt, my English professor.
He amazed me. One day he walked into class, first
day he walked into class, and 33 of us were in there,
and he called the roll. He made us all hold our hand
up, and he looked at us, and then he turned the roll
upside down, and he called everybody by name.
After that, oh, that impressed me more than
anything in the world. Dr. Ickefeldt, English
professor. I think he still lives on campus. He's
retired. But I was, I don't know. Did you feel that
the education prepared you for the future?
Looking
back, yeah, I guess it did. Of course, I was taking
the pre-med course. It didn't prepare me for the
insurance business, except it trained my mind,
education. I had a prof. Yeah, I'll give you an
adverse remark. Dr. Potter. was my pre-medical
advisor. And he didn't like the idea that I played
basketball. I would, at 5 o'clock, I'd close my lab
book up or my cap, put it away, and, where you going,
Mike? I'm going to play basketball. Now, either
you're going to play basketball or be a doctor,
what? I said, if I quit basketball, I can't go to
school because I need the scholarship to... So he
didn't... So... He taught me to have a little
humility for people, not to be so hard on you. He was
hard on me, hard as he could be. In fact, I think he
was mean, come to think about it. Really? Yeah, he
was mean to me. And he was my pre-med advisor. I had
to get his recommendation to get medical school.
And I didn't get it. Really? No, he wouldn't give it
to me. Even though my grades were, you know,
average, good. He wouldn't guess, no. Which I
thought was unfair. Yeah. Why would he be your
advisor if he wouldn't help you out in the future? I
don't know. He was, that school designated him as
our pre-med advisor.
Let's talk for a minute about, in the Army, the
quality of A&M graduates versus West Point
graduates versus ROTC from other institutions.
Could you compare those? Yes, very easy. You could
always tell a West Point graduate because he was
really stiff, and I'm not using this as a cliche,
but he was stiff, wasn't warm, and sort of an ego
type thing. And then the other ROTCs just didn't
have the military discipline that A&M ROTC
graduates had. Dress, courtesies, bearing. I
could spot them. I could tell. Because I had staffs
of mixed Georgia Tech graduates, Auburn
graduates, A&M graduates, and I could tell. Yet
they were just as intelligent as an A&M graduate or
West Point, but they just didn't have the military
barracks. And yet the West Pointer had the
military band, but he went beyond that. He was sort
of a zealot? Kind of pompous? Pompous type.
Couldn't talk to him. You couldn't talk to him
about anything except military. And then they
weren't too versed on that except what they
learned at West Point. They always talked about
West Point. But
A&M, man, you can talk to them about anything.
Business, world affairs, government. And when
you got the military, he knew just as much about the
military as the West Point man did. Or more. The
field artillery, I know in the field artillery,
when I went to report in my first division, 8th
Armored Division, as a field artilleryman, I had
to teach the West Point graduate how to fire a small
T. Really? Yeah, he didn't know. Didn't they have
practical training like that? Not at West Point.
They sent them to school at Fort Sill. While at A&M,
they trained you for four years as an orfeal
artilleryman. And they did send you to Fort Sill,
Oklahoma, the artillery school. But the West
Pointer, he just didn't have that specialty of
that. And same thing about infantrymen or
cavalrymen or coast artillery or the engineers at
A&M. They knew their field. They knew. That was
their branch, and they knew it. But even the other
ROTC schools knew more about their specialty than
the West Point. When you were out in the field, who
would you rather have as your officer? What type?
The West Point ROTC or an Aggie? Which one would you
rather have? Aggie. I preferred Aggie all the
time. And when you were a general, which one?
Aggie. Aggie again. Oh, yeah. One time I had a field
artillery battalion, all Aggies, except one
Georgia Tech graduate. Really? That's right.
They all come back from Korea, right here in
Beaumont. Sixteen officers, all Aggies except, I
beg your pardon, one Georgia Tech and one Texas
University graduate. Dick Coffin was a
University of Texas graduate. And Ralph Coker was
a Georgia Tech graduate. All the rest of the
Aggies. Oh, not that I'm prejudiced for Aggies,
but they were just better officers or better men
than Russ Point. Now I've often heard from a lot of
generals and from a lot of A&M alum, that A&M is not
just an institution of higher learning, but it's
more than that. Do you agree with that? It is more
than that. Oh, what is it then? It teaches you to be a
man. What is it? It teaches you to be a man. You know
what it teaches you to be? A take-charge man. Take
charge. Like, they can say what they want to
about... Our secretary of state. But he took
charge. This is what an Aggie would do. He would
take charge until someone says you're not in
charge no more. He'd take charge. So
that's what I think one of the great assets about
being an Aggie is that they teach you to be in
control, to have control of the situation. Okay,
what about the Aggie spirit? The Aggie spirit? You
can't touch it. It's the greatest thing in the
world.
You get two or three Aggies together, I don't care
where they're at. That's the Aggie spirit.
There's a bond ship there that no other school can
touch it.
Anything, anything they do. I was in the Battle of
the Bulge. And I was directing artillery fire on
the infantry, the German infantry. And we began to
get shelled. And so I fell to the ground, laid my
arms out there. Next thing I knew, there was
another guy flopped himself right beside me, and
he put his hand next to my hand, which had the Aggie
ring on, and he had an Aggie ring on. No kidding.
That's right. And I turned around, and I looked at
him, and I said, I'm Lieutenant Coconose. He says,
I'm Colonel Story. He says, you Pete's brother?
That's my brother Janelle. I said, yeah, I'm his
brother. He said, well, I'll be damned. We were
classmates at A&M. How's old Pete doing? Right
now, I don't care what he's doing. I want to get out
of here, Colonel. He said, oh, just sit here tight.
He was a commander in the 94th Division. We were
replacing him in the line in the ballot. So the
Aggie spirit, you know, he saw me laying there.
Yeah, he saw me laying there and I had my ring on. He
plopped his hand right there beside me. But the
Aggie spirit is just, I don't think anybody can
claim the camaraderie that goes with that Aggie
spirit. In what way do you think that A&M changed
your life?
Just
uh, you talking about just at A&M? Just going, just
that educational experience at A&M, in what ways
do you think that it changed from before until now?
I don't think it changed my life. I think it
enhanced my life. I think my daddy, my papa, and
mama put me in the right direction. And going to A&M
enhanced it, enlarged it, educated me.
It just made me more make me more worldly. Because I
was right here in Beaumont. I never left Beaumont
until I went to A&M.
I
don't
know how I could more answer your question and
change my life. It's just... Well, it made you more
of a world leader. It really did. Oh, yeah. That's
good, now.
It's just A&M. A&M just,
uh... I don't know. A&M was A&M, you know.
Is there anything else that you want to talk about
A&M before we move on to your military career? I
mean, is there something that I missed that we
should talk about here? Let's see.
Well, we talked about the core life. We talked
about the athletics. We talked about... Well,
personally,
I think A&M is the greatest university in the
world. academically, a corps, or what. It just
gives you an education that you can't get anywhere
else. In my time, the fellowship,
the closeness that you had with your fellow corps,
the spirit of corps, the Agnes Spirit, the silver
taps. Gosh. Made goose pimples all over you to hear
silver taps at midnight. Midnight yell practice.
And you know, the girls didn't play a big part in my
life at A&M. They played a part, but
there weren't any women there, you know. And so we,
you know, it was just a bond ship that you build up at
A&M I don't think no other school has
it. I would say this, without A&M, I don't think I'd
be in this position today. I don't care what school
I'd have gone to. I don't care what school I'd have
gone to. All right. In other words, now we're
getting back to that question, in what ways did A&M
change your life? Change your life, yeah. So now
you're going to switch around and say that it did.
Yeah, yeah. Because you don't think that you'd be
where you are today if you went to another
university. I don't think I'd have got this
rounded education that I had. Yeah, I guess you're
right. It did change my life. Let me say, it didn't
change my life. It probably,
well, I mentioned it enhanced my life. OK. It gave
me more opportunities.
A&M gave me more opportunities I wouldn't have
gotten anywhere else. So
I guess you're really right. Okay, let's leave it
at that and move on to your military career. Now,
when were you called up? Right after you
graduated? Can you tell me how you got in?